
set git username email in woindows

To set your Git username and email on Windows (using Git Bash or Command Prompt), use these commands:

🔹 Set globally (recommended)
This will apply to all your repositories:

git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your@email.com"
🔹 Set for a specific repository only
Run these inside your project folder:

git config user.name "Your Name"
git config user.email "your@email.com"
🔹 Check your current config
To verify:

git config --global user.name
git config --global user.email
Or see everything:

git config --list
🔹 If you need to change GitHub account (important ⚠️)
If you're getting a 403 permission error, it's usually not just username/email—you need to update authentication:

Option 1: Use Personal Access Token (PAT)
Go to GitHub

Generate a Personal Access Token

Use it instead of password when pushing

Option 2: Clear saved credentials (Windows)
Run:

git credential-manager reject https://github.com
Or manually:

Open Control Panel

Go to Credential Manager

Remove saved GitHub credentials

Option 3: Use SSH (best long-term)
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your@email.com"
Then add the key to GitHub

If you want, I can fix your exact 403 error step-by-step based on your repo 👍


the git credentials are updated yet the old github user is being recognized

That happens a lot on Windows—Git is still using cached credentials from your old GitHub account even after you update user.name and user.email.

👉 Important:
user.name and user.email are only for commits, not authentication. The push still uses stored credentials.

✅ Fix: Remove old cached credentials
🔹 Method 1: Windows Credential Manager (most common fix)
Press Start → search Credential Manager

Go to Windows Credentials

Find entries like:

git:https://github.com
Remove them

🔹 Method 2: Git command (quick way)
Run:

git credential-manager reject https://github.com
🔹 Then push again
git push
Now Git will ask for:

Username → your new GitHub username

Password → your Personal Access Token (PAT) (not your password)

🔹 Double-check remote repo (important)
Sometimes you're pushing to a repo owned by the old user:

git remote -v
If needed, update it:

git remote set-url origin https://github.com/NEW_USERNAME/REPO_NAME.git
🔹 Optional (best fix): Switch to SSH
Avoid this problem forever:

ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your@email.com"
Then add the key to GitHub and change remote to:

git remote set-url origin git@github.com:USERNAME/REPO.git
🚨 Why this happens
Git caches credentials in Windows

Changing config ≠ changing login

So it silently keeps using old account

If you want, paste your git remote -v output and I’ll pinpoint the exact issue.


how to remove contributors in the github project

Removing contributors on GitHub can mean two different things—so here’s the correct approach depending on what you want:

🔹 1. Remove a collaborator (stop their access) ✅
If you want to stop someone from accessing your repo:

Steps:
Go to your repository on GitHub

Click Settings

Click Collaborators (or Manage access)

Find the user

Click Remove access

👉 This removes their ability to push code.

🔹 2. Remove someone from “Contributors” list ❗
This is different—and tricky.

👉 GitHub automatically shows contributors based on commit history.
You cannot directly remove them unless you change history.

✅ Ways to remove a contributor from the list
🔸 Option A: Rewrite Git history (advanced ⚠️)
You must remove or change their commits:

Using tools like:

git rebase

git filter-repo (recommended)

Example (change email/author):

git filter-repo --commit-callback '
if commit.author_email == "old@email.com":
    commit.author_name = "New Name"
    commit.author_email = "new@email.com"
'
Then force push:

git push --force
👉 This rewrites history and removes them from contributors.

🔸 Option B: Start fresh repo (easy)
Create a new repo on GitHub

Copy code (without .git folder)

Push again

👉 Only you will appear as contributor.

🔸 Option C: Squash commits
If their commits are merged:

git rebase -i HEAD~X
Then squash commits into yours.

🚨 Important warnings
Rewriting history can break projects for others

Avoid if working in a team

Always backup before force push

💡 Quick summary
Remove access → Settings → Collaborators

Remove from contributors → Rewrite history or new repo

If you tell me your situation (solo project / team / already pushed), I’ll suggest the safest exact method 👍


On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.

nothing to commit, working tree clean

That message is completely normal 👍 — it just means:

You are on branch main

Your local repo is already synced with remote (origin/main)

There are no new changes to commit

🔍 What it implies
nothing to commit, working tree clean
➡️ No modified / new / deleted files
➡️ Git has nothing to push

🔹 If you expected changes but don’t see them
1. Check file status
git status
2. Make sure files are saved
Sometimes editors don’t save automatically.

3. Add and commit changes
If you made changes:

git add .
git commit -m "your message"
git push
🔹 If your goal was related to contributors issue
This message also tells us:

👉 You haven’t changed commit history yet, so:

Old contributors will still appear on GitHub

To remove them, you must:

Rewrite history OR

Create a fresh repo

🔹 Quick check (important)
Run this to confirm whose commits exist:

git log --pretty=format:"%an <%ae>"
If you still see the old user → that’s why they show as contributor.

💬 What do you want to do next?
Tell me:

❓ Remove contributor completely

❓ Fix wrong GitHub account pushing

❓ Or just commit not working

I’ll guide you step-by-step from here.
